design pattern ! 
java design pattern ! 

Christopher Alexander was the first person who invented all the above Design Patterns in 1977.
But later the Gang of Four - Design patterns, elements of reusable object-oriented software book was written by a group of four persons named as 
Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides in 1995.
That's why all the above 23 Design Patterns are known as Gang of Four (GoF) Design Patterns.


By using the design patterns you can make your code more flexible, reusable and maintainable.
It is the most important part because java internally follows design patterns.

Advantage of design pattern:
They are reusable in multiple projects.
They provide the solutions that help to define the system architecture.
They capture the software engineering experiences.
They provide transparency to the design of an application.
They are well-proved and testified solutions since they have been built upon the knowledge and experience of expert software developers.
Design patterns don?t guarantee an absolute solution to a problem. 
							They provide clarity to the system architecture and the possibility of building a better system.


Basically, design patterns are categorized into two parts:

1) Core Java (or JSE) Design Patterns.
2) JEE Design Patterns.


Core Java Design Patterns :

1.Creational Design Pattern : Creational design patterns are concerned with the way of creating objects. 
						These design patterns are used when a decision must be made at the time of instantiation of a class 
							(i.e. creating an object of a class).

	Factory Pattern   :  is also known as Virtual Constructor.
					that just define an interface or abstract class for creating an object but let the subclasses decide which class to instantiate
					In other words, subclasses are responsible to create the instance of the class.
	Abstract Factory Pattern
	Singleton Pattern
	Prototype Pattern
	Builder Pattern.

2. Structural Design Pattern
	Adapter Pattern
	Bridge Pattern
	Composite Pattern
	Decorator Pattern
	Facade Pattern
	Flyweight Pattern
	Proxy Pattern

3. Behavioral Design Pattern
	Chain Of Responsibility Pattern
	Command Pattern
	Interpreter Pattern
	Iterator Pattern
	Mediator Pattern
	Memento Pattern
	Observer Pattern
	State Pattern
	Strategy Pattern
	Template Pattern
	Visitor Pattern